[Music]
fifteen things you need to know when
dealing with the police at some point in
your life you'll have to deal with the
law enforcement officers even if you
haven't broken any laws we'll be
answering the most common what if and
can they questions about cops you have
the right to hit that like button and
let's get started what do I do if a
police officer stops me on the street
you must answer questions about your
name and where you live as soon as you
give this information asked am I free to
go if the officer says yes then you can
leave if you are visiting another
country always carry a copy of your
passport or any other ID a copy of your
visa or tourist voucher and your hotels
business card stay respectful at all
times and remember that touching a
police officer is always a bad idea even
if you're just trying to be friendly if
the police come up to you and ask
questions it doesn't mean they think
you've committed a crime but if they
don't let you leave after you ask them
to or you're being read your rights they
suspect you've broken the law
[Music]
do I have to answer their questions no
you have the right to remain silent you
will never be punished for not answering
a question in any case consult your
lawyer first remember only a judge can
force you to answer questions in court
what do I do if I'm being asked to leave
a public place if the police are asking
you to leave a public place they suspect
that you may be the reason for a
conflict that's disrupting a peace are
very drunk or intoxicated and represent
a danger to the people around you or
their property are homeless or mentally
unstable in this case police officers
don't need any written document forcing
you to leave the premises but there are
some exceptions to this the police
cannot order you to move if you're
protesting some political issue or
taking part in a strike
what if law enforcement officers pull me
over remain inside the car stay calm and
be polite keep your hands on the wheel
so that the officer can see them at all
times if the police officer requests to
see your documents such as your driver's
license vehicle registration and
insurance card show them but don't open
your window completely step outside if
the officer asks only answer questions
in connection with the reason you were
pulled over if the officer asks you
questions that don't pertain to that
tell them that you refuse to answer
why do police officers touch your car
when they pull you over police officers
do this in order to leave their
fingerprints on it this can prove that
they had an encounter with a certain
driver in the case of an emergency
they'll be able to identify the driver
thanks to the fingerprints left on his
car nowadays most patrol cars have dash
cams so officers don't need to leave
their fingerprints some might still do
it because it's a hard habit to break
[Music]
what if I've been mistreated by the
police write down the officers badge
number their name or any other
identifying information they're obliged
to provide it try to find witnesses and
get their names and phone numbers if
you're injured seek medical attention
take pictures of your injuries and copy
all papers the doctor gives to you call
a lawyer and file a complaint against
the law enforcement officer responsible
for the mistreatment what do I do if a
police officer asks me for a bribe
an officer can never demand money from
you if you've been pulled over you'll be
given a ticket tickets can only be paid
at certain places like the DMV the
county or city courthouse or online if
you don't agree with a citation you've
been given you can contest it in court
if an officer demands money from you on
the spot don't agree to give it police
officers who ask for bribes usually try
to hide their badges if you can see this
identifying information write it down
pay attention to any visible license
plates this information can help
identify the police officer later on
stay polite and respectful at all types
move on and report the incident later
what should I do if officers come to my
house ask through the door if they have
a warrant if the answer is no don't let
them in and don't answer any questions
say I don't have to talk to you if the
officers confirm that they have a
warrant make sure you see it before you
open the door if you've already stepped
outside close the door behind you and
ask to see the warrant make sure the
search warrant contains the following
information your full name and address
the date it was issued the judges name a
description of any items to be searched
for and the name of the agency
conducting the search check if there are
any mistakes in the warrant and point
them out to the officers if there are
mistakes don't agree to the search but
never argue or step in if the officers
decide to conduct the search anyway
call your lawyer as soon as possible ask
if you can watch the search if you are
allowed to be attentive write down any
identifying information available names
badge numbers car plates the name of the
agency also check if all the officers
are from the same agency and take note
if they confiscate anything find
somebody to be your witness and watch
the search
can officers search me my home my car or
my bag not unless you give them your
permission if you don't want them to
search your belongings you have to say
out loud I do not consent they can if
they have a warrant or probable cause to
believe that you've been involved in a
crime or that you have evidence of a
crime in your bag car or other
belongings do I have to show officers my
immigration documents always carry your
immigration documents on you at all
times the type you need to have with you
depends on your immigration status if
you don't have valid immigration
documents you can be arrested keep a
copy of your documents in a safe place
and apply for a replacement immediately
if you lose them or they're about to
expire if I'm entering with valid travel
papers can law enforcement officers stop
and search me customs officers have the
right to stop detain and search any
person or item entering the country TSA
agents have the authority to stop and
search you or your bags but you can't be
selected for a personal search only
based on your nationality race gender
religion or ethnic background can
airport security search my laptop files
yes they can they're even allowed to
make copies of the information in the
files if you're selected for a laptop
search write the name of the person who
conducts it you can and should register
a complaint with the TSA to find out the
reason for the search what if I'm
selected for a strip search this is
never a routine thing if it happens to
you it means the officers have
reasonable suspicion they are obliged to
take you to a private area and the
searching officer must be the same sex
as you what if I witness a crime protect
yourself run call for help hide or
whatever is necessary to keep yourself
out of harm's way
check if anyone needs help and call 911
crime and get medical and law
enforcement to the scene don't touch or
move anything it can damage or
contaminate critical evidence focus on
what's happening around you pay
attention to people vehicle models and
plate numbers or any other
distinguishing details take pictures or
video when the police arrive
explain what you witnessed and answer
all questions truthfully the police
cannot force anyone to make a statement
but they may get a subpoena which is a
document that requires a witness to
appear in court
what do I do if I need help from the
police in an emergency call 911 have it
in your contact list if there is no real
immediate danger you should call your
local police department it's good to
have their number in your phone too so
remember when dealing with law
enforcement officers stay calm and
respectful at all times never argue with
or touch a police officer and always
stayed out loud if you do not consent
have you ever had to deal with any of
these situations write about your
experience in the comments share this
video with your friends to keep them on
the safe side and if you still haven't
done so subscribe to our Channel
you